# Programming Language

This is the implementation of BASIC language.

The first thing we need to create, is the Lexer.
## Lexer

This spits up the inputs into tokens, which allows us to identify what everything is. For example, if the input is `10 + 20 * 45 - 0.3`, Leser will be able to ideentify that the value `10` is of the token type integer(TT_INT), `+` is of the token type addition(TT_PLUS), '*' is of the token type multiplication(TT_MUL), `45` is of the token type integer(TT_INT), and we have MINUS with token type of minus(TT_MINUS) and lastly we have floating number with the value of 0.3 with token type of floating_numner(TT_FLOAT).

## Parser

The idea of the parser, is to build up the syntax tree of the program from the tokens created by the Lexer.

e.g 1
1 + 2 * 3
             [BinOp(PLUS)]
                  /\
                 /  \
      [Number(1)] [BinOp(MUL)]
                        /\
                       /  \
              [Number(2)] [Number(3)]

(INT:1,PLUS,(INT:2,MUL,INT:3))

In the example above, the tree is generated by the expression: `1 + 2 * 3`.
The tree tells us what operations have to be performed, and also gives us the exact order. This tree is stacked to the plus[BinOp(PLUS)] binary operation and this lets the program know that the node on the right and on the left have to be added together. On the left node it prepares to add `1` to the right node. When it comes to the right node, it will see that there is a multiplication[BinOp(MUL)] binary operation, and there is more work that have to be done before it can be added to the number `1`. And the program will look in the right node and see that there are two numbers, one with the value of 2 and the other with the value of 3, and both numbers will be multiplied and get the results of `6`. The multiplication node will bring that value back to the top and that number will be added to the number with the value of `1` and get the results of `7`.

In the following example below
(1 + 2) * 3
             [BinOp(MUL)]
                  /\
                 /  \
      [BinOp(PLUS)] [Number(3)]
            /\
           /  \
  [Number(1)] [Number(2)]

((INT:1,PLUS,INT:2),MUL,INT:3)




